Adds docs for localizing doc types with user lang files (#5910)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 13/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/data/defining-content/document-type-localization.md

---
description: Here you will learn how to apply localization for Document Types in Umbraco
---

# Localizing Document Types

The Umbraco backoffice is fully localized to match the user's [configured language](../users.md). When defining Document Types, you can apply localization to:

- Document Type names and descriptions.
- Property names and descriptions.
- Custom property validation messages.
- Tab and group names.

Setting up localization for Document Types is a two-step process:

- Create the localizations in [user defined language files](../../../extending/language-files.md).
- Apply the localizations to the Document Types.

{% hint style="info" %}

Everything in this article also applies to defining [Media Types](../creating-media/README.md).

{% endhint %}

## Creating localizations

> User defined language files are created in `/config/lang` and must be named `{language}.user.xml` - e.g. `en-us.user.xml`.

Author: The folder doesn't exist on a clean install 😄 it needs to be created at the very level you're showing here (`config` folder next to the `umbraco` and `wwwroot` folders). If unclear, this might need to be clarified in https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/extending/language-files#user-language-files 🤓

> User defined language files are created in `/config/lang` and must be named `{language}.user.xml` - e.g. `en-us.user.xml`.

Reviewer: will do that 💪 Thank you for confirming 😊

There are no specific requirements as to how localizations should be structured for use in Document Types. The following localizations have been used for the samples in this article:

> ```xml
> <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?>
> <language>
>     <area alias="contentTypes">
>         <key alias="article">Article page</key>
>         <key alias="article-desc">A textual, article-like page on the site. Use this as the main type of content.</key>
>         <key alias="landing">Landing page</key>
>         <key alias="landing-desc">An inviting, very graphical page. Use this as an entry point for a campaign, and supplement with Articles.</key>
>     </area>
>     <area alias="tabs">
>         <key alias="content">Page content</key>
>         <key alias="seo">SEO configuration</key>
>     </area>
>     <area alias="groups">
>         <key alias="titles">Page titles</key>
>     </area>
>     <area alias="properties">
>         <key alias="title">Main title</key>
>         <key alias="title-desc">This is the main title of the page.</key>
>         <key alias="title-message">The main title is required for this page.</key>
>         <key alias="subTitle">Sub title</key>
>         <key alias="subTitle-desc">This is the sub title of the page.</key>
>     </area>
> </language>
> ```

Reviewer: adding name of the file 
```suggestion

{% code title="en-us.user.xml" lineNumbers="true" %}
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?>
<language>
    <area alias="contentTypes">
        <key alias="article">Article page</key>
        <key alias="article-desc">A textual, article-like page on the site. Use this as the main type of content.</key>
        <key alias="landing">Landing page</key>
        <key alias="landing-desc">An inviting, very graphical page. Use this as an entry point for a campaign, and supplement with Articles.</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="tabs">
        <key alias="content">Page content</key>
        <key alias="seo">SEO configuration</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="groups">
        <key alias="titles">Page titles</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="properties">
        <key alias="title">Main title</key>
        <key alias="title-desc">This is the main title of the page.</key>
        <key alias="title-message">The main title is required for this page.</key>
        <key alias="subTitle">Sub title</key>
        <key alias="subTitle-desc">This is the sub title of the page.</key>
    </area>
</language>
```{% endcode %}

```

{% hint style="info" %}

Umbraco must be restarted to pick up on changes to language files.

{% endhint %}

## Applying localizations

> The localizations are applied by using the syntax `#{area alias}_{key alias}`:
> 
> ![Applying localization to a Document Type](../images/localization-document-type-editor.png)
> 
> ![Applying localization to a property](../images/localization-document-type-editor-validation.png)
> 
> When creating and editing documents, the backoffice now uses the configured localizations:
> 
> ![Localized document creation dialog](../images/localization-document-editor-create.png)
> 
> ![Localized document editing](../images/localization-document-editor.png)
> 
> ![Localized property validation](../images/localization-document-editor-validation.png)

Reviewer: writing a step by step to make it more clear what are the steps
```suggestion
The localizations are applied by using the syntax `#{area alias}_{key alias}`. 

1. Create a Document Type with template that looks like this:

![Applying localization to a Document Type](../images/localization-document-type-editor.png)

2. Set the first property as mandatory:

![Applying localization to a property](../images/localization-document-type-editor-validation.png)

3. When creating and editing the content, you will see that the backoffice now uses the configured localizations:

![Localized document creation dialog](../images/localization-document-editor-create.png)

4. When trying to save the content without adding the mandatory content, you will see a warning as expected:
![Localized document editing](../images/localization-document-editor.png)

![Localized property validation](../images/localization-document-editor-validation.png)
```

        <key alias="article-desc">A textual, article-like page on the site. Use this as the main type of content.</key>
        <key alias="landing">Landing page</key>
        <key alias="landing-desc">An inviting, very graphical page. Use this as an entry point for a campaign, and supplement with Articles.</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="tabs">
        <key alias="content">Page content</key>
        <key alias="seo">SEO configuration</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="groups">
        <key alias="titles">Page titles</key>
    </area>
    <area alias="properties">
        <key alias="title">Main title</key>
        <key alias="title-desc">This is the main title of the page.</key>
        <key alias="title-message">The main title is required for this page.</key>
        <key alias="subTitle">Sub title</key>
        <key alias="subTitle-desc">This is the sub title of the page.</key>
    </area>
</language>
```{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}

Umbraco must be restarted to pick up on changes to language files.

{% endhint %}

## Applying localizations

The localizations are applied by using the syntax `#{area alias}_{key alias}`. 

> 1. Create a Document Type with template that looks like this:
> 
> ![Applying localization to a Document Type](../images/localization-document-type-editor.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Document Type with template called `#contentTypes_article` with alias: `articlePage`.

2. Under the newly created document type follow these steps:
- Name the description to `#contentTypes_article-desc`.
- Create a new tab called `#tabs_content`.
- Add a new group called `#groups_titles`.
- Add a property called `#properties_title` with alias `title`.
  - Set description to `#properties_title-desc`. 
  - Use a `TextString` editor.
  - Enable to `Set this field as mandatory`.
  - Under validation add `#properties_title-message`.
- Add a property called `#properties_subTitle` with alias `subTitle`.
   - Set description to `#properties_subTitle-desc`.
   - Use a `TextString` editor.
- Enable to `Allow as root` in the **Permissions** tab.

![Applying localization to a Document Type](../images/localization-document-type-editor.png)

```

2. Set the first property as mandatory:

![Applying localization to a property](../images/localization-document-type-editor-validation.png)

> 3. When creating and editing the content, you will see that the backoffice now uses the configured localizations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When creating and editing the content, you will see that the backoffice now uses the configured localizations. Create a new "Article" content:
```
